Objective: Disable insecure Telnet and enable secure SSH for remote management.


Steps:

1.Set an IP Domain Name.
SSH requires a domain name to generate its encryption keys.
SW4(config)# ip domain-name verventech.local


2.Generate Crypto Keys.
These keys are used to encrypt the SSH session. 1024 bits is a good minimum.
SW4(config)# crypto key generate rsa
The name for the keys will be: SW4.verventech.local
Choose the size of the key modulus in the range of 360 to 4096 bits.
How many bits in the modulus [512]: 1024
% Generating 1024 bit RSA keys, keys will be non-exportable...
[OK] (elapsed time was 1 seconds)


3.Create a Local Admin User.
SSH will authenticate against a local username and password database. We'll create an admin user with privilege level 15 (full access).
SW4(config)# username admin privilege 15 secret verventech123

Note:
Cisco IOS devices have 16 privilege levels, numbered 0 through 15.
These levels allow you to create a "role-based" or tiered access system. A higher number includes all the permissions of the levels below it.
By default, only three levels are commonly used:
Level 0 (Zero-level access): This is the most restrictive level, sometimes used for very specific, limited-access accounts. By default, it only includes five commands: logout, enable, disable, help, and exit.
Level 1 (User EXEC Mode): This is the default level for a standard user when they first log in (Switch>). It's a read-only mode, allowing users to run basic show commands (like show clock or ping) but not make any configuration changes or see the running configuration.
Level 15 (Privileged EXEC Mode): This is the "enable" mode (Switch#). It has full, unrestricted access to all commands, including configure terminal, reload, and viewing the running-config. This is the level your SSH user is assigned.



4.Configure the VTY (Virtual) Lines.
These are the virtual lines for remote access (Telnet/SSH).

login local tells the switch to use the local user database (that we just created) for authentication.
transport input ssh tells the switch to only allow SSH connections (disabling Telnet).

SW4(config)# line vty 0 15
SW4(config-line)# login local
SW4(config-line)# transport input ssh
SW4(config-line)# exit


5.Save Your Configuration.
SW4# copy running-config startup-config



Verification Commands:
1.show ip ssh: Verifies that SSH is enabled.
2.show run | section vty: Shows the VTY line configuration.
Test: Try to SSH to your switch's IP (192.168.1.10) from a PC on the same network.
